Based on my device, I've played a total of about 3 hours of Ni no Kuni. That's not counting the time I first tried to play it in high school. That was probably around the same amount of time if not less. 

I wanted to test my hypothesis that since I've clocked over 50 hours in Persona 5 maybe I'd be more hospitable to that tried and true turn-based JRPG combat. Seems I forgot Ni no Kuni does it kinda weird.

Ni no Kuni has combat, your classic magic system with HP and MP (magic points) and similar to Pokemon, familiars that you can send out to do combat. What it does that is maybe more similar to a Tales of game and Pokemon Arceus is the battle space isn't stationary. You and your enemies can move around the field, with regular attacks effecting an area while certain magic attacks are homing or pull you into a cut scene and does it's damage. The way you attack though, is reminescent of turn-based systems EXCEPT a huge difference, it's still in realtime. You can choose to attack but that attack has a certain time duration and sometimes a cool down. You can cancel out of the move you've employed but time still passes. Only when you're switching fighters or choosing an enemy to target will time stop/slow down. 

At first, as someone who isn't a big fan of turn-based RPGs I was kinda into this mechanic. It was kinda fun to do my attacks and run out of the way to avoid getting hit by most regular attacks. It felt like I was being rewarded for my quick thinking and active timing while also adhering to the passive combat features. 

Over time, after getting killed a lot, it started to dawn on me that maybe this combination of timing and move selection was maybe not great. The game felt like it was asking me for precision and timing the way a zelda would while making me navigate a clunky, off to the side menu. It's a minor UX nitpick but one that costed me my life several times, but the action is happening in the middle of the screen. That's where you're observing the enemy and judging when a wind up animation is starting. But the move selection menu is on the bottom right, not really where your eyes in naturally focused in on during the fight. I got hit a lot while taking the time to glance down to the corner and see what move I was selecting. It didn't seem like there was a strong understanding that this was how players would be playing the game. I'd understand if a button mapped onto a move and I, the player, was expected to know which move to do depending on timing, that's like any rogue like with a dodge, light attack, heavy attack, and block system. Ni no Kuni's moves were in a carosel that could navigate from left to right. They didn't even afford you the luxury of a hot key to pull up spells or items like in the non-combat world. 

In other games with a carosel, like Going Under, that selection was small and asked little cognatively. The weapons select had 3 options, one you were currently equipped with and an item on either side (left/right) to switch equip. This is pretty standard in games highlighting many weapons with different functions. Borderlands has the carousel but also has hot keys on the d-pad to let you quickly select the weapon you want from 4 directions.

Ni no Kuni was really mostly a visually appealing journey. And it felt like that where a lot of care and attention went. I think it would've gained a lot from simplifying it's mechanics or cutting combat all together to focus on it's Give/Take Heart system and turning that into the main feature of puzzling or challenge. It seems strange that your purist of heart is going around whacking feral animals like some kid bully with rage issues.
